So you want to install a programme on your computer.
And the way that you might be used to installing something
is clicking on a link, downloading it,
double click, big, nice install box and off you go.
The terminal is different and now
there are different ways of installing programmes.
But if you have a Mac one of the most common and easiest
ways is using a programme called Homebrew, Brew for short.
So the url is brew.sh and it's a utility
that gives you access to install
other utilities or other programmes.
So it's fairly painless to get
this installed in the first place.
So, they have this installing Homebrew.
You literally just copy and paste this entire line
and you drop it into your console.
Now, I've already installed Homebrew
so it should be trying to redo it.
It's asking me for my password because it needs
to be able to put things in different places.
Looks like I am actually installing
Homebrew again, but it should be fine.
And what that would do is give
me a little command called Brew.
And from there, if I open, it's already ready,
I can give a different argument so at the end
of the installation it said I can
run Brew help, so I'm going to type that.
And that's going to show me the different commands.
Now, I can search for different formulas,
so the formulas are kind of the packages
and packages of, basically, programmes.
You can search for them, you can find information
and go back to the Home page for them.
Brew install and Brew uninstall are basically
the two things that I use all the time.
So, in the same Home page we have
an example of using wget, wget basically gets a webpage.
I've already installed that, I think, yep.
So if I type in wget and then take the url just,
it'll download the index page and we can see it there,
save to index one, I can cat that out.
There you go, so that is this page.
So you're going to sort of, there's
a whole bunch of other programmes you can install.
But without knowing what they are, how do
you know what to install, right?
Well, the way that I've approached it is
on Twitter or through a peer or colleague,
they say to me oh, I use such and such programme,
it's really good for linting or running
local development servers or just
making the terminal look more interesting.
And one of those more interesting programmes
I heard about was Ponysay.
So there's a old Unix programme called Cowsay
which basically prints an ASCII cow
and it says a thing, but this is a spin on that.
So I googled Ponysay, and I've got two results
and the first is a GitHub project.
The second one looks like a homepage,
so I'm just going to go the homepage
just to show you my workflow to try and install this thing.
And I see a picture of a terminal and the pony
and that's what I want to just kind of liven up my terminal.
And I can see down here is installing
and then some words, really, from upstream,
package repositories, exotic operating.
Is a Mac exotic?
It's kind of exotic.
At this point I'd probably abort and go back
to my google search results and click on the first one.
So it looks like pretty much the same thing.
This is GitHub and really, I'm
not interested in all these files.
The meat of what I'm looking for is down here, the README.
Why this isn't higher up I don't know.
So, yep I want this pony on my terminal
just to lighten it up a little bit.
And here we go, installing on GNU/Linux
and other Unix implementations.
Now, a Mac is actually based on a Unix implementation
so we might be able to use the information here.
So what I'm doing is literally
just scrolling down looking for words I recognise.
And here we go, Mac OS X, that's the one we want.
And it just says, a ponysay Homebrew formula is available.
And they've put the ponysay part in code
and what that's telling me is I should be able
to do Brew install and then the name of that programme.
So I'm just going to try that.
I'm going to back to my terminal
and type brew install and then ponysay.
And it should go through the whole process
of doing the brewing of the ponysay.
So poured it, and it says summary and it gives me
the little beer icon which means, I guess, it's all good.
So we'll try it.
Ponysay, execute, alright we've got some output.
That's pretty good, that's kind of what I wanted.
Although, actually, really what I wanted was a pony
so it says Hello World, hey, there we go.
We scroll up a bit, we can see
the pony's actually saying, Hello World.
And now I have a completely useless programme on my computer.
But what I can do is I can figure my prompt,
so that when I open a new terminal,
every time it can generate a new pony for me every time,
just to kind of make things look
colourful on this rather bland screen.
So that's Brew, and there are lots of different programmes
that are a lot more useful than this pony.
For instance, there's the, if you're familiar with Lynx
the text browser there's also that in Brew lynx.
So you can browse
the web in plain text
which might be pretty retro, might be good for the hipsters.
But, actually, it's quite useful
for pulling down just the text of a webpage.
So I think you can use lynx to, man lynx,
so if you want any help, I tend to use google,
but you can type man which is short for manual
and the name of the programme, and it
will give you the manual for the programme.
And in here somewhere should be how
to just print the page on the screen.
I'm sure it's in there, I know it's in there somewhere.
Another quite useful little tool I have is gifify.
I think, yep, gifify, that came through Brew as well.
So that Brew install gifify and what that would do is
it will take a video file like an mp4 and generate a gif,
an animated gif so I can just use that.
Even though, technically, it ends up being larger
than the video, not that clever for the web.
But still, sometimes a gif kind of
works better than a video in some cases.
And there's a whole tonne of things.
You can google things like best homebrew packages
and you'll get lots of people's opinions on first things
to install, and must-have and so on and so forth.
So that was Brew, bit of a whirlwind tour,
but definitely useful and, like I said, pretty much
the go-to way of installing programmes.
If you land on that README page take a look at the,
look for, this is on Homebrew and
you can just install from there.